[DOC] Architecture update (#15)
Mirantis/mke-docs: content/docs/concepts/architecture/configuration.md

# Configuration and blueprints

The Mirantis Kubernetes Engine (MKE) 4 configuration file contains an
opinionated configuration on how to set up the MKE cluster.

> In the configuration file, you can:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the MKE configuration file to:
```

- Define the number of nodes in the cluster.
- Define ways to access the nodes.
- Enable or disable certain MKE 4 features.

> The configuration file is translated into a more complex blueprint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once set, the MKE configuration file is translated into a more complex blueprint
```

that contains the granular details on how to set up the cluster.

## Create configuration

> To generate the default MKE configuration file run `mkectl init > mke.yaml` command.

Reviewer: Suggest making this an enumerated procedure:

1. Generate the default MKE configuration file:

```bash
mkectl init > mke.yaml
```
2. Modify the generated file to deploy MKE on the cluster.

3. Modify the `hosts` section of the MKE configuration file to apply the configuration to a set of pre-existing machines:

> To generate the default MKE configuration file run `mkectl init > mke.yaml` command.
> Next, modify generated file accordingly to deploy MKE on the cluster.
> 
> To apply configuration to a set of pre-existing machines, modify the `hosts` 
> section of the file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Generate the default MKE configuration file:

```bash
mkectl init > mke.yaml
```
2. Modify the generated file to deploy MKE on the cluster.

3. Modify the `hosts` section of the MKE configuration file to apply the configuration to a set of pre-existing machines:
```

With the MKE configuration file, you can:

- Define the number of nodes in the cluster.
- Define ways to access the nodes.
- Enable or disable certain MKE 4 features.

Once set, the MKE configuration file is translated into a more complex blueprint
that contains the granular details on how to set up the cluster.

## Create configuration

1. Generate the default MKE configuration file by running:

    ```commandline
    mkectl init > mke.yaml
    ```

2. Modify the generated file to deploy MKE on the cluster.
3. Modify the hosts section of the MKE configuration file, 
to apply the configuration to a set of pre-existing machines:

    ```yaml
    hosts:
    - ssh:
        address: 18.224.23.158
        keyPath: "/absolute/path/to/private/key.pem"
        port: 22
        user: root
      role: controller+worker
    - ssh:
        address: 18.224.23.158
        keyPath: "/absolute/path/to/private/key.pem"
        port: 22
        user: ubuntu
      role: worker
    - ssh:
        address: 18.117.87.45
        keyPath: "/absolute/path/to/private/key.pem"
        port: 22
        user: ubuntu
      role: worker
    ```

## Choose addons

> A core part of MKE 4 is the ability to selectively install addons from a set of

Reviewer: Suggest editing to read:

A core component of MKE 4 is a default set of curated and tested addons that you can install by running `mkectl init' and subsequently applying the generated configuration file.

Using the MKE configuration file, you can enable and disable the MKE 4 addons, as well as modify their settings. In addition, you can use the 'mkectl init` command with the `--blueprint` option to print the generated blueprint that reflects your current MKE 4 configuration.

curated and tested addons. Run `mkectl init` command to enable a set of default
addons that are considered core to MKE 4. You can modify the generated config to
enable or disable additional addons, as well as modify their settings.
The `init` command also includes a `--blueprint` option, which can be used to
print the generated blueprint that reflects the current MKE 4 configuration.

## Blueprints

> All MKE 4 configuration files are translated into blueprints. 

Reviewer: Suggest:

All MKE 4 configuration files are translated into blueprints, a file type that is used to create Kubernetes Custom Resources (CRDs) that are also called blueprints.

Blueprint files must be in Kubernetes YAML format, and they must contain many of the same fields as a standard Kubernetes Object.

MKE 4 uses Blueprint Operator to manage blueprints and their assignments.

A blueprint is a special type of file that is used
to create a Kubernetes Custom Resource (CRD) also called a blueprint. 
Thus, the blueprint file must be a valid Kubernetes YAML and contain many 
of the same fields as standard Kubernetes Objects.
MKE 4 uses the Blueprint Operator to manage all blueprints and their assignments.

> A blueprint is composed of three sections:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A blueprint comprises three sections:
```

> 1. The Kubernetes Provider details with settings for that provider.

Reviewer: Suggest not offering this content as an enumerated list. Instead, let's do a definition list:

<dl>
  <dt><strong>Kubernetes Provider</strong></dt>
  <dd>Details the settings for the provider<br>For the most part, the Kubernetes Provider section is is managed by mkectrl, independently of the user's MKE configuration file. </dd>
  <dt><strong>Infrastructure</strong></dt>
  <dd>Provides details that are used for the Kubernetes Cluster; the hosts section of the MKE configuration file.</dd>
  <dt><strong>Components</strong></dt>
  <dd>Composed of addons that are specified in the MKE configuration file. The `mkectl` command transforms the configuration options 
into specific settings for either Helm or Manifest type addons that are deployed into the cluster.</dd>
</dl>

This section is mostly managed by `mkectl` independently of the user provided MKE configuration file.
2. The infrastructure details that are used for the Kubernetes Cluster.
This is the `hosts` section of the MKE configuration file.
3. The components section, composed of various addons specified in the MKE
configuration file. The `mkectl` command transforms the MKE configuration options 
into specific settings in either Helm or Manifest type addons that are deployed
into the cluster.

> To see detailed blueprint of an MKE config run `mkectl init --blueprint` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To view a detailed blueprint of an MKE configuration, run the `mkectl init --blueprint` command.
```

> You can modify the blueprint directly, but any such modification is considered 

Reviewer: Suggest breaking this sentence off from the one before it and changing it to a callout:

>It is possible to directly modify a blueprint, however such modifications are considered advanced and support by MKE 4 is not assured.

# Configuration and blueprints

The Mirantis Kubernetes Engine (MKE) 4 configuration file contains an
opinionated configuration on how to set up the MKE cluster.

With the MKE configuration file, you can:

- Define the number of nodes in the cluster.
- Define ways to access the nodes.

> - Enable or disable certain MKE 4 features.

Reviewer 2: Enable or disable certain MKE 4 features -> Enable or disable certain MKE components

- Configure features of the different components

Once set, the MKE configuration file is translated into a more complex blueprint
that contains the granular details on how to set up the cluster.

> ## Create configuration

Reviewer 2: This belongs in a "Getting Started" page imo

Reviewer: Left comment to do this as follow-up to initial publication.

1. Generate the default MKE configuration file by running:

    ```commandline
    mkectl init > mke.yaml
    ```

> 2. Modify the generated file to deploy MKE on the cluster.

Reviewer 2: Remove 2 and just go to 3

3. Modify the `hosts` section of the MKE configuration file, 

> to apply the configuration to a set of pre-existing machines:

Reviewer 2: Make a note that users will have to setup the pre-existing machines

Reviewer: Added "that you have set up in advance" to the end of the sentence.

    ```yaml
    hosts:
    - ssh:
        address: 18.224.23.158
        keyPath: "/absolute/path/to/private/key.pem"
        port: 22
        user: root
      role: controller+worker
    - ssh:
        address: 18.224.23.158
        keyPath: "/absolute/path/to/private/key.pem"
        port: 22
        user: ubuntu
      role: worker
    - ssh:
        address: 18.117.87.45
        keyPath: "/absolute/path/to/private/key.pem"
        port: 22
        user: ubuntu
      role: worker
    ```

## Choose addons

A core component of MKE 4 is a default set of curated and tested addons that you
can install by running `mkectl init` and subsequently applying the generated
configuration file.

Using the MKE configuration file, you can enable and disable the MKE 4 addons,
as well as modify their settings. In addition, you can use the
`mkectl init` command with the `--blueprint` option to print the generated
blueprint that reflects your current MKE 4 configuration.

> ## Blueprints

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure we should really go into any details for blueprints other than say that one is generated from the config and how to view it. For details we should send customers to the blueprint documentationhttps://mirantiscontainers.github.io/blueprint/

Reviewer: Tabling *Control plane* for Alpha.1 initial docs, with a comment at the bottom of the file to revisit.

Reviewer: Left a comment to follow-up on transforming this section following initial publication.
